--- 
layout: post
author: batlopez
title: "Nat's Game"
---

Coding this game was very challenging. There are still a number of things that are not working that I hope to be able to get to work by class tomorrow. I spent a significant amount of time trying to figure out how to just randomize the math problems that showed up on the page and also to randomize the location of the answer options. I still haven't really figured out how to get that to work. So, I now am able to get random numbers and "operations" but when I try to get the answers to show up in random locations, some are overlapping and I'm not sure why. 

I haven't fully figured out how to get the click function to work to recognize the correct answer. Ideally, it should be able to select the correct one, and then have that be "counted"/shown through the animated progress bar. The dog is supposed to be able to pick up his friend and then they go to the ferris wheel together after three questions are answered correctly. If three questions are answered incorrectly, the player loses. 
I haven't had a chance to set up the winning and losing animations yet but I anticipate being able to do that. I tried to refocus my energy on just having a counter of score work but it seems like the click is not recognizing the right answer. I at least know I have to focus my energy on that part of the code rather then on the "animation." 

One thing I took away from this assignment was a much better understanding of the use of classes. I wasn't really sure how to use them before this assignment so that was helpful. I also would work on building up some of the structure of the game and used simple math problems without randomly generated numbers to test things out when I was having issues with it before. Though I feel like I didn't make as much progress as I would have liked to by tonight, I do think I learned some effective trouble shooting tools that I can employ. 

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python/a68e116471" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Milestones:

 create a graphic interface with a series of math problems that display after one is answered
 include a countdown that allots the user a specific time to answer
 integrate a loop so that math problems continue to display until three are answered correctly
 create a win screen/animation if user answers three questions correctly
 create a lose screen/animation if user answers three questions incorrectly
Optional Milestones:

 create a graphic "progress bar" that showcases how close user is to winning or losing
