---
layout: post
author: EternalFootman
title: "Kit's Project Update 1"
---

The game so far:

<iframe src="https://trinket.io/embed/python/ce83a47138" width="100%" height="600" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I'm pretty well on track thus far, though the refactoring has been more involved than I'd anticipated. That said, I've actually really enjoyed returning to my early projects. The code is far more efficient now. Having written it first the slow way has given me a great appreciation for the shortcuts. For example, my Chessboard setup code is about one third of its original length; originally it had no functions, which is an obvious fix. More interestingly (to me), I was able to create a class for the pieces and write more specific functions for their creation that way. This was the first time I really understood what a class could do that nothing else did quite as well.

My only modification in the milestones has been the addition of the Chessboard refactoring, which I had simply forgotten needed to happen. At the moment, I'm not immovably stuck on anything. I can see how the broken down milestones are keeping me on track; the work would build up quickly without them.

Update: I also need to convert the printed feedback to part of the graphic in the Garden and Daisies games.

**Milestones:**

For Tuesday 19 April:

- [x] Refactor Daisies
- [x] Refactor Croquet
- [x] Refactor Yarn
- [x]Refactor Garden
- [x] Refactor Chessboard (New)

For Thursday 21 April:

- [ ] Set moves in Chessboard
- [ ] Convert print to graphic in Garden
- [ ] Convert print to graphic in Daisies

To be scheduled:

- [ ] Write start screen. Not menu (games will be chronological)
- [ ] Go through all games to make sure all turtle names are consistent (Alice for actions, Gardener for setup, etc.)
- [ ] Write transition between first two games
- [ ] Apply transition to other games
- [ ] Incorporate help dialogue
- [ ] Add custom images, probably transitional screens
- [ ] Write end screen. Nothing so unambiguous as winning. There will be an imported image of a crown.
- [ ] Include restart option in end screen

**Stretch Goals:**

- [ ] Add new section – Walrus and Carpenter quiz
- [ ] Incorporate chessboard into transition screens to show progress
