---
layout: post
author: gao14g
title: "Ga Kay's Project Update & Stand-Up Report 3"
---

## My Data Analysis Project Repository:

https://github.com/gao14g/INLS560DataAnalysisProject/commit/5cdf1e3e5e9e3bd11758d947d6cd7cff48dd7bd8

## Reflection:
I think that I'm almost done with my project. I have almost all of the options completed. Having the project plan has been very useful because it helps me determine what I should spend my time working on. Starting a project from scratch can be intimidating but having a plan helps make the process a lot easier. So far, I think my milestones have been pretty good. They have helped me keep on track. I've been able to fulfill my milestones for the most part. I think I'm going to push the "order the data within the dictionary" to be a stretch goal. For functionality purposes, the dictionary doesn't need to be ordered so I will try to reach that goal if I have time to finish it. In terms of my milestones coming up, I mainly need to fix small bugs, make my program run smoother, and account for more user error.

## To Be Scheduled:
- [ ] fully account of user error
- [ ] make sure my program runs smoothly
- [ ] finish option 1
- [ ] allow users to search through any type of data set
- [ ] reorganize code within the modules (potentially make another module instead of having all my code in one module)

## Old Milestones:

- [x] include at at least two of the four data sets
- [x] have a text-based interface
- [x] have a "help" function that the user can access by typing "/help" (or something similar to that)
- [x] allow the user to keep searching for information until they want to exit the program
- [x] visualize at least two to three of the text printouts
- [x] include an introduction message for the user
- [x] use try and except to handle bad input
- [x] allow users to search for specific items and specific statistics about each item
- [x] include at least one custom module, one dictionary, and one function
  - [x] create a dictionary of dictionaries for each item in the file
  - [x] create a function that allows the user to exit the program
- [x] import the tsv files
- [x] read through each data file
- [x] have the layout of my options menu 
  - [x] include at least three to four options all with descriptive titles
  - [x] create functions for at least one to two of the options
- [x] have the help function print tips and more instructions for the user
- [x] format the printouts so that it doesn't just print the dictionary
- [x] fully complete at least one of the functionalities for the options
- [x] fully finish all options within option 2
- [x] start adding functionality for option 1
- [x] start visualizing certain printouts

## Stretch Goals:

- [x] include all four data sets
- [ ] include additional data set about cheapest item locations
- [ ] integrate Eve Online's Crest API to pull more data
- [ ] allow visualization for all text printouts
- [ ] order the data within the dictionary of dictionaries
