---
layout: post
author: elliott
title: "Problem Solving Attitudes & Strategies"
categories:
  - notes
---

# Problem Solving Attitudes

* Self-awareness
* Calm
* Determination

Always know how you feel.  This is critical.  If you know you're frustrated, that could
be a key indicator that it's time to go take a shower.

Keep in mind that you *will* understand the problem.  Work backwards from that certainty.

Don't let uncertainty overwhelm you or lessen your determination.  Focus on the certainty you do have.

Talk it out.

# Problem Solving Strategies

**Go in the Right Direction**

* Make sure you know what problem you're trying to solve.  Articulate it clearly.  This is harder than it sounds.
* Make sure you know what you think you know.  Test what you think you know to confirm it. Build from there.
* Keep your **goals** in mind. Sometimes you'll discover you're off on a tangent. Re-focus.

**Work smart**
* Start early.
* Make lists of what you need to accomplish.  I use Google Keep.  Separate the planning from the doing to keep your mind clear.
* Break the problem down into solvable pieces. At least one solveable piece will keep you moving forward.  Once you've solved a piece, save/commit your work and take a breather.
* **Time box.**  Work no more than 15-25 minutes at a time on a single problem.
* Stumped? **Stop** and come back later. In the shower is where many a tough programming problem
has been solved.


**Use Your Resources**
* **Who** would know the answer? Find them, in person or via Google.
* Re-read the relevant parts in our textbook or the other resources I linked to in our syllabus.
* Know what to google for.  Much of the help on the internet (e.g. StackOverflow) is too specific for the 
basics. Use a trusted reference when you can, be that a person or a book.

___

**Problem Solving Tactics For Python**

* `print` what you think things should be and see if they are
* see if you can predict what kind of `Error`s you'll generate
* `try` and `except` errors you don't care about for now