---
author: elliott
category: notes
published: true
title: "Notes TBD"
---



# Check-in

How are your **Meetups** coming?

5 minute Meetups Scatergories.  Make a list of 3-5 local (less than one hour drive from UNC) programming meetups, with links 
to a website and their next meeting. (Must have an upcoming meeting)

Scoring: One point for each qualified meetup that's totally unique.

Who wins: Besides us all, since we now have a dedicated list of great meetups? The person(s)
with the highest score.

How are your **Open Source** contributions coming?

Consider playing a similar game with some friends.

# Take home, ungraded Mid-term

This is exactly the same as the other section of INLS 560.  Completing it will get you full credit, and knowing
your numerical grade should give you a sense of whether you've gotten some of the basics.

This is something that you should treat like a real test to get the most out of.  Review **Syntax**, **flow of control**,
and **loops** in particular.  Trinket does a lot for you in terms of autocomplete and error detection but this will
be a paper test with no feedback so make sure you're not too reliant on those crutches.

**Time yourself**.  You should spend no more than one class period, 75 minutes, on this.

The purpose of this test is to increase your meta-cognition, or knowing what you know.  It will also help us
ensure that both sections of INLS 560 are covering comparable material.  There is nothing about Turtle on 
the midterm, but all of the great projects you've done should help you in reading and writing the basic code on the test.