---
author: elliott
category: notes
published: true
title: "Pair programming a poetry slam!"
---

# Q & A

* Question 8.4
* Question 8.5
* Question 8.6
* Student todos - I'll open them when I see them but you should be looking over your assignments, confirming that they display correctly, and submitting any fixes needed
* I'll assign todos when they're one person but for two people I'll have to settle for atmentioning you.
* Feel free to ask questions about todos- they're not to make you feel bad, they're to help you learn!

# Another look ahead

Check out our [schedule]({{ site.baseurl }}/schedule.html)

I'll be out for three class periods and you have a big project due while I'm away. 
(What dummy made up this schedule?)

Keep calm- you can do this!  

We've been doing a lot of collaborative work.  This upcoming period mimics remote work.
You will use **remote collaboration tools** to interact with me and with your peers.
**While I'm gone remote class means read the notes**.  You will still have 'in-class'
assignments and we'll 'pair up' remotely.

# Pair Programming Review

* Communication is key!  Think out loud.  Work your partner into your thought process.
* Pair programming may feel slower.  That's natural.  Slow down and buy in to get the benefits.
* The Navigator can't get anywhere without the driver.  
* The Driver doesn't know where to go without the navigator.
* Tell your partner what you need from them.  Ask them for it!

# Poetry slam

[Let's do this]({{ site.baseurl }}/exercise/Slam-hack.html)